This is our 20th Weekly Press Review
Greetings from the train that's taking me from Paris to Marseille
to take part at the March 8th Women's Rights day, where I'll be participating.
As we're on the train, you may hear time to time some odd noises
from electromagnetic interference and else
So...
I want to take advantage of this Weekly Press Review to draw your attention to
something in the campaign that didn't get a lot of notice
...like most of the events in this campaign
because these days, all we hear about is Mr. Fillon's justice misadventures
so say the show ongoing about criminal investigation of the right-wing candidate.
So the point... That evening, Mr.Macron (other Pres candidat) was being interviewed
on the "France 2" public TV channel.
by an incredibly indulgent journalist--to the extent that it was widely commented on the social media.
The journalist, Mr Pujadas, was interviewing Mr. Macron, and during the interview
Macron started talking about pensions
rolling out all the usual clichés and all usual grass-less sentences
saying "No one can make heads or tails of the pension system"
I disagree, people understand the system quite well: it's a  mandatory state pension based on redistribution of contributions from those working to those in retirement and it's a bit different depending on the profession specific category.
As You know your own retirement category, you are well informed.
Mr Macron additional said:
"I propose, for every euro paid into the system every individual should have the same rights."
And no one is paying attention. Not Mr. Pujadas, who doesn't interrupt him or say:
"What do you mean?"
So the guy keeps rolling out his idea and he gets to make out that this is a brand new idea
that it's fair, that it's balance.
When in fact it's the opposite and it's an well known systeme
A points-based fund pension system, which would completely change the organization of our repartitions system
In that system, that is true, every euro paid in entitles you to the same benefit, regardless of who you are.
But what he's not telling you, is that the pension you will be entitled to will vary from one year to the next one
depending on the value of the fund points you will have acquired by paying into the system
So contribute into the system, you gets points which have a given value
Let's say it's one euro per point
but the value will fluctuate from one year to the next, and why is that?
First you have to take into account your generation's  life expectancy.That's his proposal.
Say you're born in 70
Your life expectancy isn't the same than if you were born in 72 or 73
So by this time we're wondering what life expectancy has to do with any of this
What it means is that the greater your generation's life expectancy, the less you will be entitled to, because you're more expensive
That's a first source of inequality.
The pivotal questioning now:
is not cause you're born the same year as someone that you've had the same life
and mostly the same kind of physical profession
Today, there is already a terrible gap between the life expectancy of labor workers and the management
It's a big difference, believe me.
The average life expectancy of a blue-collar worker is 59 years!
It's much greater for white -collar, which aren't as physical by nature.
So at first glance, Macron's pension measure seems egalitarian, but it's absolutely the opposite
Secondly
the value of each point will fluctuate depending on the salaries paid out
because your salary and life difficulty will determine how much and if you could save into the system
and the variation will depend mostly from a big salary
or a small one as you will have to decide how much you could save yourself.
So when the time comes, they will tell you
"Now you can decide when you want to retire, at 62at the earliest
which is the minimum age today
according to the system set up first by Fillon, then by Hollande: 62 years old, 43 years of contribution. Already that's rough
So you can choose between that and retiring at over 67 or 68
And all of this is presented nicely, neatly, with a pretty red ribbon
They tell you "You can choose when you retire"
and all the dummies are saying "Great I get to decide."
First no one ever said you had to retire at a given age
In every profession, there's always the possibility to go beyond
and keep working after the legal Minimum retirement age
There are only a few professions where you cannot continue working after a certain age
And frankly, it's just safer for some, no?
There are jobs where it's probably not a good idea to keep working beyond 60 or 65 or 62, or whatever
And that's how this whole idea of a points-based pension system was covered by France 2
And no one realized what it actually meant.
I wanted to tell you about it, because I don't think you should let run
a presidential campaign without intel,
on the account of this nonsense
it's just a lot of spin, or "story telling"
Just to say, they're just trying to trick you
So, this attempt to fool the public by the beautiful young banker, with all his great ideas
who claims to want to free up society...Well it's all a bunch of stale rubbish
A points-based pension system means the end of the current pay-as-you-go system
The current system obviously has a number of drawbacks that we propose to fix
In any case, let me tell you what my position is:
I'm in favor of a return to the ability to retire at 60 with 40 years of contribution, and not one more.
And I can tell you how I plan to finance it. I'll say again:
If women get the same salary as men for doing the same job,
the additional contributions will be enough to finance the ability to retire at 60 with 40 years of contribution
and I'm happy to be able to say that on my way to Marseille
to take part in the events on Women's Rights Day
That was my first topic.
The second topic of the week, that no one has heard about
because the news channels have put a lid on anything that isn't related to Fillon's embezzlement issues
is something that's out of the ordinary
The four leading economies of the European Union
Germany, France, Italy and Spain
and their heads of state or government
met in, of all place, Versailles (Hollande couldn't think of a better place apparently).
Shows a lack of taste on the part of a Frenchman, but let's skip over the historical implications
because Hollande doesn't know a thing about French history. He's just not interested.
He doesn't get the symbolic significance
So, there were four countries meeting just to pretend it wasn't in fact a meeting of two countries
And they each made a separate statement
If you were following this, you may have wondered why
Because the fact is that four countries are meeting to decide the future of Europe
forgetting the 24 other countries that are waiting at the door to hear about the decisions they made.
That isn't exactly the most egalitarian approach to Europe, it's not in the European spirit
And here's what they decided: let's create a two-speed Europe!
That's going to be their big idea. So while they were doing that,
they were acting as if they were reinventing the wheel.
Because, we already have a multi-speed Europe: we've got Schengen,
we've got the Euro zone; not all of Europe is in the Eurozone, and so on...
And there's yet another example, the Europe that currently discussing
a tax on financial transactions, what they used to call a Tobin tax.
This has been going on for five years, it involves ten countries and we haven't gotten anywhere
And so that's their silver bullet, which is supposed to solve all of Europe's current problems
Naturally it won't solve anyone's problems, because it isn't the issue
Take the President of the French Republic
He wants to create a Eurozone parliament and a Eurozone government
(It's a proposal he made on July 14, 2016) taking into account the weight of each nation.
But, what for? A Eurozone parliament, a Eurozone economic government, what for? To do what?
That apparels to be the Grand European Project: The Europe of Money
That's what it boils down to. And when it's not the Europe of Money, it's the Europe of War
And I want to tell you about it, because, on the day they were talking about Mr. Fillon,
the day all TV cameras were filming the campaign headquarters of Les Republicains,
at the same time, they did something they think they's gotten away with because no one noticed: the creation of a Military Staff
for the European Union, with its headquarters in Brussels
They starting out very quietly, but I ask you: What is this for?
They say it's the Europe of Defense, all the candidates are in favor of a Europe of Defense
You think "Europe of Defense". Sounds good! What a great idea.
But that's the wrong reaction. The right question to ask is: Who is Europe defending against?
Who are we supposed to be defending ourselves against? What commitments are you taking for each other?
If you create Europe of Defense, that means you intend to defend all the countries participating in the EU.
Maybe, but that would be new for France.
Our defense is not designed to take over the defense of Europe.
It is designed to protect France's borders. If a country attacks us
we strike it hard, once and for all.  It is horrific, but that's what is known as nuclear dissuasion.
It's debatable, but that's the system we have and that we've based our security on and it hasn't changed since General de Gaulle
It can be changed, but we have to talk about it. And it's not something you hear about in the press
When you create a Europe of Defense, you're telling everyone that we might possibly be fighting on European soil.
This is the exact opposite of our definition of the defense of the French
It's a strange way to introduce the concept to call it Europe of Defense
What you're thinking is an independent Europe...But that's not it at all, you haven't been following:
Europe of Defense is actually within the framework NATO.
In an interview to Le Monde, Hollande said
"We can relaunch Europe through a common defense." Now do you get it?
So he wants to relaunch Europe through Money and through the Military. magnificent! The opposite of what we want.
We founded Europe for peace, especially between the French and the Germans, and let's check whether that hasn't changed
But we also built Europe to have peace with our neighbors. Now we're creating Europe of Defense to relaunch Europe.
We built Europe so we could have a social Europe, and what do we get, the Europe of the euro.
a European Central Bank whose statutes can never be changed
in charge only of keeping the currency stable, with no responsibility for jobs
with no concern for social harmonization or tax harmonization, because that's forbidden.
So that's where we stand. And while all of these decisions are being made,
what are we talking about? Whether or not Mr. Fillon, or Mrs Fillon or the Fillon children or whatever
and the bickering among Les Républicains to decide whether or not Fillon should still be candidate
Frankly this smacks of a massive smokescreen to me
I want to make it clear, I said so during my press conference and I'll repeat it now: we are not committed by their decisions
The others had better know this up front: if I'm elected whatever they have decided does not concern me.
And I don't think that the President of the Republic should be making that kind of commitment 50 days before the end of his term.
François Hollande, who has already lied to everyone by saying he would renegotiate the European budget treaty, and who didn't renegotiate anything,
He should not be making decisions on our behalf, because it's not acceptable
If only out of courtesy for democracy in this country.
But the other are no better. Look at the Italian President
He's facing a new general election in Italy.
Why? because he took over a bit
haphazardly from Matteo Renzi, who recently lost a referendum in Italy.
And Mr. Rajoy, the Spanish Prime Minister.
He doesn't have a majority and no one knows how long he's going to last
Then there's Madame Merkel, who has a general election in September.
All four are in a highly unstable democratic position
and yet they are making decisions they have no right making.
They're making decisions that will have affect the next several years in the very last months of their terms.
What they're saying is: I've made a decision, you deal with it.
It's like Sarkozy who signed a budget treaty with Mme Merkel and, when Holland came to power,
after telling us he was going to renegotiate, he said. France is committed by its signature.
Well not me. Let me be clear about that.
I'm telling you about that meeting in Versailles and about the new Military Staff
because I am increasingly worried about the rising tensions in the world.
I see more and more situations degenerating into head-on conflict
Once again, the USA is installing new antimissile missiles
to pretect South Korea from potential attacks from North Korea
At first sight, it sounds like a good idea. That way, North Korea won't be shooting at South Korea.
But the end result is that those missiles are exactly the same as the ones we have installed in Europe.
The US installed the missiles in Poland, claiming that they would protect Europe from missiles launched by Iran.
Three years later, we signed an agreement with Iran, but the missiles are still there.
The US has also deployed troops on the ground
In fact, they did that to threaten Russia
just as the missiles in South Korea are there to threaten China's defense, and that fosters tremendous tension in the region.
Everyone is very worried and I'm very worried.
I think that the situation...with a character like Mr. Trump...
Maybe he's just acting, maybe he's playing the tough guy, but that's not how you act in that kind of situation.
You have to have an attitude that is clear, and understood by all.
You don't want anyone to make a sudden gesture or anything that could totally disrupt the balance of peace.
So that's it. I want to conclude on the Demonstration on March 18.We are organizing a March
from Bastille to République, in Paris to on the theme of the 6th Republic
That date is important for the type of campaign we are running
This is not just an electoral campaign. This is the political mobilization of the people to carry out a project.
The campaign itself has to be part of the project.
This march is our way of showing the top way out
from the current situation of political decomposition
The top way out means that the people will designate a Constituent Assembly
to redefine the rules of the game in our country
redefine the principles and the rights we recognize one another.
And thus set a number of necessary rules: the right to recall elected officials,
the right to make important decisions like making all people who have been convicted ineligible for life,
whatever their crime, when it goes against republican virtue.
For us, this March will be an event in the presidential campaign
But it will also be an event of political expression for the French people concerning their future.
Those are the two aspects of the March on March 18
To get there you are invited to use whatever means at your disposal, including carpooling
On foot, for those who can, by carpool, and we will charter buses.
You can come by train, but the Gare de Lyon will be closed that day,
I want to make sure you know that. The trains that normally go to Gare de Lyon
wil stop in Tremblay, I believe, and then, you have to get to Paris.
So I know it's going to be a bit complicated, but not that complicated I hope.
So if you want to take a bus, go to our website, jlm2017,
and find out where the buses are leaving from, because we've already started to centralize that.
We're expecting to charter between 260 and 300 buses
Give or take. Between 260 and 300, so that everyone can come.
You need to be careful. Naturally there's a fee to get on the bus, but there's a return ticket. We'll get you home. Now worries.
But be careful, for some of us it may be too expensive. Some people may not have the money.
If you are part of one of our support groups, if you want to contribute, let's make sure that
everyone who wants to can get on the bus and that no one is left behind,
just because they can't afford to pay for the ticket.
We need to take care of our friends and make sure that there are as many of us as possible.
I need you to be as many as possible, because an idea like the 6th Republic
is not something you can support with a small demonstration. It's got to be powerful.
Strong, powerful, they have to see a show of strength, and mostly that there is a majority
In my opinion, there is a majority in France to organize this Constituent Assembly and change the Republic.
Let me say, and insist, that we will not change the constitution
on the basis of a proposal drafted by a group of experts, of buddies, like in 1958.
When General de Gaulle asked Michel Debra and a few others to produce a draft constitution.
And then, it's either a yes or a no vote. In fact there was no real discussion
Because it became a yes or no vote for or against General de Gaulle and no one bothered to find out
what was in the text, and those who did, who protested, weren't that many.
There were some, like François Mitterrand and Mendès France, and the Communists, too, I think, were against the 5th Republic.
Who was for at the time? The right and the Socialist Party at the time.
They never missed an opportunity to show off and they were for the 5th Republic.
It's natural that we are the one's defending the idea of the 6th Republic
It's not just an ideological whim put forward by a small group of people
The 6th Republic is at the heart of our strategy of a Citizen's Revolution. We are getting involved
We are minding our own business, we are redefining the rules of the game. This is why March 18 will be a great event.
So for the history buffs, March 18 is the anniversary of the Paris Commune
A magnificent movement of resistance against the Prussian invasion
That's how it started. Then it became a social revolution not just in Paris,
because people believe that the Commune only happened in Paris. In fact, therefore Communes that constituted themselves throughout the country.
And they immediately took all sorts of decisions that were liberating, like secularity, compulsory public schools, etc, etc.
Issues that became the political demands of all Republicans.
And it wasn't that simple, as you know, because the repression that followed was ferocious.
No one ever talks about that repression , but they must have shot between 20,000 and 30,000 in less than a week.
When the Commune ended, most of the communards were shot. It was absolute terror.
They weren't tried or anything. Just lined up against the wall and shot.
So the Paris Commune belongs to all the French.
Not just those with left-wing ideas, even if the Commune was largely initiated
by left-wing people, and almost exclusively for them, or those who would later become the left.
All the same, it's part of the whole country's history. It wasn't just a bind riot.
It started with resistance to an invasion and then, it became the expression of the people's will.
Its desire for social equality and social liberty.So normally it should be a beautiful day for everyone.
So goodbye for now, and remember the blue thumbs-up to boost the video if you enjoyed it!